README.md, before:

# Multi node setup for multiple Powerloom Snapshotter Lite slot holders on Linux VPS

## 0. Preparation.

Clone this repository. And change into the repository's directory. All commands will be run within there henceforth.

```
git clone https://github.com/PowerLoom/snapshotter-lite-multi-setup.git
cd snapshotter-lite-multi-setup
```

## 1. Setup Python environment

This is of utmost importance. We want to setup an isolated virtual environment with the right Python version and modules without affecting any global Python installations on the VPS or your local machine.

### 1.1 Install `pyenv`

Detailed instructions and troubleshotting can be found on the [pyenv Github repo README](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv?tab=readme-ov-file#installation). In general, the following should take care of the installation on an Ubuntu VPS.

```
sudo apt install build-essential libssl-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev libreadline-dev libsqlite3-dev curl libncursesw5-dev xz-utils tk-dev libxml2-dev libxmlsec1-dev libffi-dev liblzma-dev
curl https://pyenv.run | bash
pyenv install 3.11.5
source ~/.bashrc
```
### 1.2 Install `pyenv-virtualenv`

Detailed instructions can be [found here](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-virtualenv).

```
git clone https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-virtualenv.git $(pyenv root)/plugins/pyenv-virtualenv
echo 'eval "$(pyenv virtualenv-init -)"' >> ~/.bashrc
pyenv virtualenv 3.11.5 ss_lite_multi_311
pyenv local ss_lite_multi_311
```

## 2. Run the setup

```bash
# prepare the .env file
./init.sh
# install all python requirements
pip install -r requirements.txt
# run the setup
python multi_clone.py
```
When you execute `python multi_clone.py`, you will see the following prompts that guide you through setting up your node(s).



https://github.com/PowerLoom/snapshotter-lite-multi-setup/assets/6279391/a0f1aa39-2cf6-43ff-86b0-d46f3acae818



1. **Terminate Existing containers:** "Do you want to kill all running containers and screen sessions of testnet nodes? (y/n) n"

- Type `y` Use this option and stop all active containers or node instances. This will clean up all the older containers. Please cross-check your running containers before executing this command. 

2. **Custom Slot ID Deployment:** "Do you want to deploy a custom index of slot IDs (indices begin at 0, enter in the format [begin, end])? (indices/n)"

- For instance, to deploy the first four slot IDs as nodes, input `[0, 3]`, where 0 is the start index, and 3 represents the fourth element in the slot ID array associated with the wallet holder. If you want to deploy the entire array of slot IDs, type `n`.

1. **Deployment Batch Size:** " Enter the batch size into which you wish to split the deployment"

- A batch size of 1 means nodes will be deployed one by one, in batch size of 1. A batch size of 2 takes two nodes at a time and proceeds with deployment, and so on.

If you encounter any issues, please contact us [discord](https://discord.com/invite/powerloom).

Commit message:

chore: update dev mode instructions

README.md, after:

# Multi node setup for multiple Powerloom Snapshotter Lite slot holders on Linux VPS

## 0. Preparation.

Clone this repository. And change into the repository's directory. All commands will be run within there henceforth.

```
git clone https://github.com/PowerLoom/snapshotter-lite-multi-setup.git
cd snapshotter-lite-multi-setup
```

## 1. Setup Python environment

This is of utmost importance. We want to setup an isolated virtual environment with the right Python version and modules without affecting any global Python installations on the VPS or your local machine.

### 1.1 Install `pyenv`

Detailed instructions and troubleshotting can be found on the [pyenv Github repo README](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv?tab=readme-ov-file#installation). In general, the following should take care of the installation on an Ubuntu VPS.

```
sudo apt install build-essential libssl-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev libreadline-dev libsqlite3-dev curl libncursesw5-dev xz-utils tk-dev libxml2-dev libxmlsec1-dev libffi-dev liblzma-dev
curl https://pyenv.run | bash
pyenv install 3.11.5
source ~/.bashrc
```
### 1.2 Install `pyenv-virtualenv`

Detailed instructions can be [found here](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-virtualenv).

```
git clone https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-virtualenv.git $(pyenv root)/plugins/pyenv-virtualenv
echo 'eval "$(pyenv virtualenv-init -)"' >> ~/.bashrc
pyenv virtualenv 3.11.5 ss_lite_multi_311
pyenv local ss_lite_multi_311
```

## 2. Run the setup

```bash
# prepare the .env file
./init.sh
# install all python requirements
pip install -r requirements.txt
# run the setup
python multi_clone.py
```
When you execute `python multi_clone.py`, you will see the following prompts that guide you through setting up your node(s).



https://github.com/PowerLoom/snapshotter-lite-multi-setup/assets/6279391/a0f1aa39-2cf6-43ff-86b0-d46f3acae818



1. **Terminate Existing containers:** "Do you want to kill all running containers and screen sessions of testnet nodes? (y/n) n"

- Type `y` Use this option and stop all active containers or node instances. This will clean up all the older containers. Please cross-check your running containers before executing this command. 

2. **Custom Slot ID Deployment:** "Do you want to deploy a custom index of slot IDs (indices begin at 0, enter in the format [begin, end])? (indices/n)"

- For instance, to deploy the first four slot IDs as nodes, input `[0, 3]`, where 0 is the start index, and 3 represents the fourth element in the slot ID array associated with the wallet holder. If you want to deploy the entire array of slot IDs, type `n`.

1. **Deployment Batch Size:** " Enter the batch size into which you wish to split the deployment"

- A batch size of 1 means nodes will be deployed one by one, in batch size of 1. A batch size of 2 takes two nodes at a time and proceeds with deployment, and so on.

If you encounter any issues, please contact us on [discord](https://discord.com/invite/powerloom).


## [OPTIONAL] Dev mode setup

> [!WARNING]
>This section is not required if you are not planning on running a customized setup. For any related assistance, contact us on [discord](https://discord.com/invite/powerloom).


If you wish to customize the docker containers being launched by not using the published images from Powerloom, and instead clone the underlying snapshotter components locally and building their images, we support that as well now.

Ref: [Step 2](#2-run-the-setup), after running `./init.sh` , you can edit the generated `.env` file for the following fields

```bash
DEV_MODE=False  # you can set this to True
# subseqeuently you can specify the branch of https://github.com/PowerLoom/snapshotter-lite-v2 that you wish to run
LITE_NODE_BRANCH=main
```
